What we do:
Our purpose is to provide hoteliers with data insights that will result in growing profit margins, give them a competitive edge, and ultimately increase asset value. Our HummingbirdPXM commercial strategy platform offers swift access to our comprehensive data set that enables tactics to grow profits with lean commercial staffing, empowering hotels to deliver stronger gross operating profits (GOP)  leading to better net operating income (NOI) results.

Our History:
In 2012, Cindy Estis Green co-authored the groundbreaking study Distribution Channel Analysis: A Guide for Hotels and delved into the implications of rising acquisition costs for hotels. She realized that in order to limit the dependence on high-cost digital channels, hotel owners and operators need to manage the balance between direct and third-party business. In working with many hotel stakeholders, it was clear that the industry needed to routinely measure the effect of customer acquisition costs on profit and monitor the actions taken to improve net revenue.
Knowing the challenges posed by digital disruption for many industries, Estis Green launched Kalibri Labs in order to offer the hospitality industry a platform to help keep the hospitality industry competitive. Enabling a more accurate means to evaluate and predict hotel performance, Kalibri Labs set out to offer analytics tools that put a focus on ways to make commercial decisions that grow profitability, ensuring management teams can sustain healthy asset values.
Major hotel companies, representing over 100 brands provide daily or weekly data to Kalibri Labs so hotels can assess their revenue performance and profit contribution against realistic benchmarks by market, submarket and groups of statistically correlated competitors. Along with its unique and innovative use of data science, Kalibri Labs is the only industry analytics provider that can support hotels well beyond the legacy descriptive statistics by giving predictive forecast data and prescriptive guidance to enable hotels to build their own playbook for achieving an owner’s asset value growth objectives.
As the first in the industry to provide transparency to customer acquisition costs, Kalibri Labs empowers hotel brands, owners and operators to implement integrated commercial strategy plans built around their optimal business mix. The users of Kalibri Labs data products benefit from its groundbreaking data science and machine learning to set realistic targets for a hotel’s best performance in terms of profit contribution.

Our Team:
The Kalibri Labs team draws from seasoned executives who bring deep hospitality industry experience to our solutions. Our team shares a passion to build the industry’s financial health in a dynamic digital marketplace.
Cindy Estis Green - CEO & Co-Founder
Cindy Estis Green’s career began in corporate marketing and senior operations with Hilton International. After founding the data mining company, Driving Revenue, and selling it to Pegasus Solutions, Ms. Estis Green spent twelve years as managing partner of The Estis Group working with hotel owners on targeting value growth in their assets.
Estis Green has been honored as one of the hotel industry’s 25 Extraordinary Minds in Sales and Marketing, was inducted into the prestigious Hospitality Technology Hall of Fame, named as one of Cornell University’s 90 Influential Hotelies and received the HSMAI Vanguard Award for leadership in moving the field of revenue optimization toward a focus on profit contribution. She was named an industry “game-changer” when honored by the Cornell Hotel Society as a member of the 2023 Class of the Hotelier Hall of Fame. A prolific published author, Estis Green is highly sought after as a speaker on topics related to digital disruption and the impact on the economics of hotels.
Ms. Estis Green co-founded Kalibri Labs, a next-generation commercial strategy platform to evaluate, predict, and benchmark hotel revenue performance. Using data science, Kalibri Labs helps hoteliers optimize profit contribution to improve asset value and supports the real estate community with tools that refine underwriting for investment and development. Estis Green holds a BS degree from Cornell University and an MBA from The American University.

Chris Wood
CTO
Chris Wood has over 20 years of experience leading data analytics product development in cybersecurity, government, and consulting. Prior to joining Kalibri Labs, he was SVP Engineering at LookingGlass Cyber Solutions, where he was responsible for all aspects of development and delivery of multiple analytical products. Prior to LookingGlass, he served as a data and software architect at IBM. Chris has extensive experience building secure systems across the entire software development lifecycle, designing patented data applications, and managing large-scale distributed teams.

Zoe Hamilton
SVP of Operations, Data & Revenue
With over 15 years of experience in hospitality analytics, Zoe is inspired by the challenge of leveraging the power of data to help businesses improve. She has extensive experience building and launching best-in-class data-driven products that help clients identify opportunities to drive profitability. During her tenure at Kalibri Labs, Zoe has built and led teams focused on Data Strategy, Analytics, Data Acquisition / Implementation, and Operations. Before joining Kalibri Labs, Zoe drove product innovation and led the analytics team at Avero, the leading software platform for the restaurant industry. Zoe holds a BS from the Cornell University School of Hotel Administration.

Sofya McIntosh
VP of Sales
Sofya McIntosh is a seasoned hospitality professional with 23 years of experience in hotel operations including technology sales leadership with a proven track record of delivering strong results. Sofya has a deep knowledge of revenue management, marketing solutions, business intelligence, and profit optimization solutions and services in the hospitality industry. Sofya acts as a strategist and relationship builder, working with current and potential customers to assess their business needs, market conditions, and industry trends to help them maximize their revenues and profitability. Before joining Kalibri Labs, Sofya worked with several leading business intelligence/revenue optimization firms including TravelClick, Rainmaker, Oracle, and Hotel Effectiveness.

Jennifer Hill
VP of Commercial Strategy
Prior to joining Kalibri Labs, Jennifer worked with several third-party management companies and has experience in operations and revenue strategy at branded and independent hotels in major markets. Jennifer has been an advisory board member for the Washington DC chapter of HSMAI since 2015 and served for four years on HSMAI’s Revenue Optimization Advisory Board and as co-chair for its annual Revenue Optimization Conference (ROC). Jennifer is the winner of HSMAI’s Revenue Optimization Professional of the Year and Top 25 Minds in Sales, Marketing and Revenue Optimization awards, and is a frequent speaker at ROC and other industry conferences, where she shares her knowledge and experiences, inspiring others to pursue careers in hospitality.

Chris Clement
VP of Customer Success & Industry Partnerships
Chris Clement is a highly experienced hospitality technology professional with 25 years of experience in customer success, sales and account management leadership, hotel revenue management, hotel distribution, and SaaS sales focused on increasing and optimizing results. Chris and his teams are continuously looking for opportunities to enhance the overall customer experience by providing education, training, and most importantly value through data and insights via the various technology solutions he has supported throughout his career. Chris lives by the motto, “Focus on What Matters” and has provided extensive leadership and coaching training on prioritization, organization, and change management with the end goal of providing an exemplary customer journey. Prior to joining Kalibri Labs, Chris has worked for many of the top companies in the hospitality industry including Marriott, Cvent, Rainmaker, and most recently Sabre.

Aly Finnerty
Head of People Operations & Human Resources
Aly Finnerty is a strategic Human Resources Leader with 16+ years of progressive HR management experience with small technology companies and high-growth (SaaS) start-ups, including multi-state and international operations. She has a proven track record of building HR functions and teams from the ground up and crafting HR initiatives that meet business goals and improve performance, growth, and employee engagement. Aly has held senior-level, consulting, and C-level human resources roles across SaaS companies for many years and she has helped several companies more than double in size. Aly has managed all aspects of Human Resources, but she is incredibly passionate about; organizational development, change management, leadership development and coaching, performance management, workforce planning, and talent acquisition.

Mark Mazzocco
VP of Data Science
Mark Mazzocco leads our Data Science team, working to generate new ways of transforming data through algorithms to provide value to our customers. He joined Kalibri Labs from Burson Marsteller, a leading crisis management firm in the DC area, where he led the client team responsible for the development and delivery of their online audience analytics products, with a focus on customer behavior modeling. Prior to that, he led the data management team at Recyclebank, a recycling loyalty and rewards start-up. Mark has over ten years of revenue analytics experience in the hospitality industry, having worked both on property and helping to lead Hilton’s Corporate Revenue Management team.

Mark Lomanno
Partner & Sr. Advisor
Mark Lomanno is a Partner and Senior Advisor for Kalibri Labs, a hospitality data analytics company that focuses on helping hotels improve profit contribution by evaluating performance based on revenue net of customer acquisition costs. In addition, he advises several start-up and investment companies in the hospitality and data space, including Duetto Research, Aspire Marketing, Venturism, and FireLight Camps, where he also sits on the Board of Directors. In that role he takes an active role in helping to shape the respective company’s strategic direction, creating and enhancing new research solutions, and building relationships with hospitality brands, owners, and operators.
Lomanno is the former President and CEO of Smith Travel Research (STR), the hotel industry’s global lodging authority on current trends in hotel supply, demand, occupancy, average room rates, and RevPar. Under Lomanno’s leadership, the number of hotels sending performance data to and subscribing to the various STR product offerings grew to tens of thousands of hotels globally, representing over 5 million hotel rooms. During his tenure, STR and STR Global became the world’s foremost and most reliable and accurate sources of historical lodging performance trends, global hotel census databases, and hotel development and construction databases.
In 2011, Lomanno co-authored “Distribution Channel Analysis: A Guide for Hotels”, which is believed to be the most comprehensive study on the lodging industry’s online environment. This study was the culmination of research on distribution practices, the distribution landscape, and hotel performance based on booking channel mix. Specific attention was focused on various aspects of hotel Internet bookings including rooms booked through the various OTC sites. Over 20,000 copies of the over 200-page report were downloaded in the first 2 weeks of availability.
Mr. Lomanno serves on the advisory board of The School of Tourism & Hospitality Management at Temple University, where he also teaches a graduate-level course entitled “New Media and Distribution”. In addition, he serves on the advisory board of The Center for Hospitality Research at Cornell University, The School of Hospitality at The Pennsylvania State University, and the University of Delaware’s School Hotel, Restaurant, and Institutional Management. Mr. Lomanno is a named Research Fellow at Cornell University, an active member of the Hotel Development Council of the Urban Land Institute, and is a named Conti Professor at Pennsylvania State University.

Bob Bennett
Partner & Sr. Advisor
Bob Bennett has over thirty years of Senior IT experience in the hospitality industry. His experience ranges from large international brands (Hilton & Marriott) to industry leaders in PMS & CRS technology (Micro-Fidelio & Pegasus Solutions). Additionally, he led the Hospitality Technology practice at PWC and founded his own company, Starr Technology Consulting. He is active with both HITEC and HFTP and was inducted into the Hospitality Technology Hall of Fame. Bob holds a BS from the Cornell University School of Hotel Administration and attended Cornell University’s Johnson School of Business.
